[BLANK_AUDIO]
>> Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat
with measures that are defensive.
That has turned to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base.
And that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge that their security
did not rest upon the threat of instant US retaliation to deter the Soviet attack?
We could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil over that of our allies.
I know this is a formidable technical task, one that may not be accomplished.
[MUSIC]
>> Victor Technologies, the high flying hardware computer company, which took a nose dive this year,
made me bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
[MUSIC]
>> I let even space shuttles very difficult to do.
I would think can a kid or a normal person actually pull us off.
>> Well, what I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
>> It seems the sweep of technology has no limits.
Except for Cisco this week, World's first robot bar tender was unveiled.
Robot can talk and take smoking orders and mix to 100 different drinks.
But on the first test run, Robot knocked the glass off the bar and
on the floor and poured beer all over the counter.
And Robot's designer said there were still some bugs he worked out.
[MUSIC]
>> I'd call upon the scientific community in our country.
Those who gave us nuclear weapons to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind and
world peace, to give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete.
Tonight, consistent with our obligations of the ADM treaty,
recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies.
I'm taking an important first step.
The instant US retaliation, nuclear war, nuclear war.
[MUSIC]
>> In Japan, where high technology showcased consumers stare in wonder at the latest
best of live overtaken by the computer age, the department store.
The law of the stable store is proud of its technology and
its worry that customers who feel that this lost the human touch.
[MUSIC]
>> Okay, and we're live, Georgie Dinkoff, Raymond Peat.
Thank you guys so much for joining us.
Hit the like button, subscribe, Ray, how are you?
How are you doing?
And Georgie Dinkoff, how are you?
>> Not bad, can you complain?
There are mobs marauding the streets of DC, but other than that seems to be okay.
>> With that, we're going to take some criticism of this show as we're not talking about nutrition enough.
So I did want to, maybe if Ray will humor us, go back to basics and talk about the role
of progesterone, carbon dioxide, the kind of the flow of electrons through the cell.
And so I probably can't talk about this enough because it's, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong right,
but it's really foundational to the bioenergetic perspective.
And so I don't know if we could just, I don't know, maybe paint a picture of what's
happening when you're eating fats, proteins, and carbohydrate, how they combine with oxygen,
what role of thyroid having in that process going through the mitochondria,
producing carbon dioxide, and how that's reciprocating the use of oxygen.
And then what exactly is progesterone doing in that whole process?
>> Okay, proteins, the basic substance of life, protein is acidic, and that means it's electron withdrawing
and proton releasing. And this creates a preexisting, once you have protein substance,
a deficit of electrons. So being acidic, it's already inclined towards oxidation.
It's a high content of oxygen atoms on the polymers that creates the acidity of the proteins.
And that, the organization of Jeremy England at MIT is working out the very basic physical
principles of simply the crudest sense of the flow of energy shining light on simple molecules
and showing that it creates order. And if you once come to the existing proteins,
if you shine light on it or in any way have an energy disequilibrium, you get a flow of
energy through that gob of polymerized atoms. And the flow of energy itself, the way Jeremy
England shows with simple atoms, it, once you have a polymer solution, a co-assurate,
for example, or just an emulsion, the difference, two points that have different electron affinity,
it's going to align these proteins according to where the electrons are flowing. So if you
have an oxidant on one end and an exciting electron source on the other, the potential
electron donor, there's going to be a flow of energy that will create order in the polymer.
My experiment that convinced me that it's a very simple process was to stick two electrodes
through an egg shell and measure the current flow and resistance as the voltage rises
and then the current flow and resistance as the voltage falls, just an oscillating change
in voltage, you get a very strong hysteresis loop on the falling voltage, the flow of
electrons is out of proportion. They flow very easily with little resistance because
as the voltage increased, the proteins created a conductive channel. So what walking makes
the road basically, whenever you have energy flowing, you make the pass easier for the
next flow of energy. And so it's like it increases its appetite and capacity to use
energy. During the process of development and evolution, you get all sorts of side channels
of energy being drained off in creating different substances according to the voltage difference
and availability of the atoms and molecules that have arranged themselves aligned in an
ordered way. So the more complex it gets, the faster it gets more complex yet. And Vernadsky,
early in the 20th century, worked out the implications of this, that the sun as the source
of energy flowing through substance created order and continuing the flow spontaneously
leads to a higher and higher metabolic rate, the hysteresis curve, the bigger it gets the
more electrons that can conduct for a second. And as a consequence of that faster and faster
flow of electrons, you get a more complex system with a bigger brain, for example, which creates
and maintains that higher metabolic rate. So physically, Vernadsky a hundred years ago
had described it in detail with all its implications. And almost at the same time, there were two
or three people working out the medical, biological, and developed implications of oxygen in a
very practical way. Frederick Cook or Coke in the U.S. out of Warburg and the Albert St.
Georgie, we're all seeing the creation of the aspiring organisms as developing and progressing
through the use of oxygen. And they saw that when you interfere with this flow of electrons
by doing something that blocks the ability to use oxygen, you revert to basically a slime
metabolism, a very primitive ancient, underorganized way of using energy. And all three of these
at Warburg, Coke, and St. Georgie saw cancer as using a primitive pre-oxidative metabolism.
And the more or less overlapping with their studies, there were a couple of people working
on the implications of carbon dioxide as the product of oxidative metabolism and the extraction
of electrons from fuel. And the carbon dioxide, if you think of it in mechanistic terms,
the tendency is to not notice that carbon dioxide in itself is acidic. The common theory of
acid that's still built out as the basic thing in science textbooks and courses is the proton
donor theory of acidity. But all of these physical ordering processes caused by oxygen
are really the electron retraction theory of acidity. And carbon dioxide doesn't have
any protons, so if you think of proton release as the essence of an acid, you can't think
of CO2 in itself as an acid, but it's called the Lewis acid. And if it having two oxygens
on one carbon, it's a very powerful electron binder. So if the instant it sits down on
a protein, the protein shifts its electrons to be close to the sender of the carbon dioxide
molecule. So it increases the acidity. You have a pre-existing protein with acidity.
And when you oxidize something and produce carbon dioxide, that increases, intensifies
the acidity. And so that's part of the sculpting effect of respiration. It intensifies whatever
process was creating it in the first place. The more you breathe, the more able you are
to breathe in effect.
I have a question in regards to the solar energy. I mean, given that most of the molecules
that compose us and that are flying around in the universe, they're charged molecules.
And we have this constant flow of energy, at least in the solar system, in the form of
the photons from the sun. Doesn't that automatically imply that randomness, more or less, would
be impossible in such an environment because there will always be an orientation, which
means some kind of an order which the sun will create?
Yeah, just light streaming through gas. It's creating order. When you look at ionizing
radiation, they emphasize the disorder that it creates. But when a cosmic ray particle
goes through something, you can see the trail of changes it has introduced. But just the
flow of light is, to the extent that it's interacting with a matter at all, it's giving
it an order and direction.
I was speaking to a physics professor about randomness recently, and he kind of failed
to give me a definition of what would be a physical test for randomness. I said, "All
of your tests are statistical." I mean, you get a stream of numbers, and if it satisfies
a certain number of statistical tests, you call it random. But in nature, I don't have
a single example, I don't know of a single example, that true randomness has been found.
It always seems to be subjective, right, based on the large of the data set, right?
It's a huge religious philosophical assumption. It's sort of like original sin, you believe
it, and then you follow all the consequences of believing it.
About 50 years ago, I wrote an article the assumption of randomness and all of the consequences
that have come from that very arbitrary assumption.
You mentioned Albert St. Georgie, and I remember you saying this a long time ago, and it was
something that I think was fundamental for me to mildly understand where you're coming
from. In his book, The Living State, he said, "The ability of unlimited proliferation is
an attribute of life. In the simplest living forms, growth is limited only by environmental
factors. In multicellular organisms, this potential has to be suppressed in the interest
of the organism as a whole. It must be restored when proliferation is needed and again arrested
when no longer needed. When the suppression mechanism is out of order, and the cell loses
its ability to stop proliferation, senseless growth can't result, so that is a flood warning.
That's basically exactly what you're saying in terms of, in another article you talked
about sugar and oxygen being these brackets for our energy production. When these things
are blocked, we revert to this unlimited proliferation blob like state. That kind of the M of hypothyroidism,
the person becoming definitionless and looking more like a blob.
Phyroid is the essence of oxidation for living cells. Have you ever seen the experiment with
a tadpole, with a thyroid blocker, or with an excess of thyroid hormones? If you block
the thyroid function, you get a giant infantile tadpole. If you give it an overdose of when
the tadpole is maybe three quarters of an inch long, an overdose of thyroid, you get a miniature
frog about the size of a spider. The foods being reduced into electrons and then going
through the cell and the inventory of oxygen being dictated as I understand it primarily
by carbon dioxide. So what can go wrong in this process? You've talked about some pivotal
what I call landmarks and cellular metabolism such as phosphofructokinase 1. You've talked
a lot about pyruvate dehydrogenase and of course cytochrome C oxidase. What are some
big picture of things that are important for understanding the production of energy and
then how that process starts to degrade as we age?
Maybe starting with the phosphofructokinase 1. Is it that's blocked by things like free
fatty acids and stress and such?
Just the choice between fat and carbohydrate, when you oxidize carbohydrate, you get extra
carbon dioxide as a byproduct. So it's like insurance that you're going to reinforce
the oxidizing process. But oxidizing fat, even if it's a safe saturated fat, you don't get
such a return of carbon dioxide and so that increases the risk of falling over into the
lactate, glycolytic slime metabolism. When you're starving or diabetic or unachitogenic diet,
you're lowering the oxidative state of the cell. By making you less stable, it's opening
up the opportunities for all of the processes of aging, creating collagen, for example,
free radical activities such as nitric oxide, which can degrade your DNA. When you're perfectly
at rest and in good health, it's okay to sit there letting your muscles have a pure
fat diet when everything is very common and you aren't likely to blow out too much carbon
dioxide. But as soon as you have any stress activity that makes you at risk of taking
in too much oxygen relative to carbon dioxide, then that starts increasing your nitric oxide
production, collagen deposition, for example, two ends of the aging carcinogenic process.
And a shout out to Jay Feldman for making me more aware of this, but he says in one of
his articles, and that's somebody that follows your work, right, but he says in one of his
articles, glucose oxidation produces about 25% more NEDH and half as much FADH2 as fat
oxidation. And I hope I don't screw this up. But well, he says, FADH2 donates electrons
at complex two and reduces the amount of uberquinone available to accept electrons at complex
one. And this is the main kind of place where it's being shifted to the reduced NADH away
from the NADH plus in the fat oxidation is this backup of electrons in these complexes.
It might be most often the biggest factor, but I think everything tends to work together.
So many places, essentially, everywhere process is working. It tends to get biased when you're
not over producing carbon dioxide, wasteful energy in the sense of pouring out the carbon
dioxide and producing heat as your only product. That's insurance and it's acting on many,
probably hundreds of identifiable different enzymes and regulators and structural proteins
in the mitochondrion cytoplasm. And he also mentioned like this is complex one primarily
where the or one of the major sources, the superoxide and then that hopefully I'm not
screwing this up. But the superoxide is combined with something to produce the nitric oxide.
And so again, the fat metabolism is inherently increasing like the function or the production
of nitric oxide, is that right? Unless you get the whole stream going, pulling
the electrons out at a maximum rate at the oxygen end, then that in effect is attracting
electrons that would make superoxide and other random damaging electrons. The faster you
run the apparatus, it creates, again, an electron with drawing effect from the surrounding cells,
just as a neighboring atom to atom influence, not a chemical reaction but an inclination
towards a more carbon dioxide-like condition of the structure.
So I have a question. So I guess something like metaling blue, which is technically an
oxidizing agent, it's also an antioxidant because it enables the flow of these electrons
throughout the entire chain the way they're supposed to be. It prevents the formation
of these reactive oxygen species, so it's an actual functional antioxidant while also
being an oxidizing agent. And I think all of these so-called antioxidants, like ascorbic
acid, when it's really protecting you and working the way it should, it's a powerful
oxidant dehydroiscorbate is the predominant form in a healthy working cell, and that shifts
in the direction of ascorbic acid in cancer and stress cells. So the whole idea of antioxidant
has been skewed heavily by denying the role of carbon dioxide and oxidation as a protective
effect, the stronger the oxidation in the normal route, the more wasteful and inefficient
your energy is. Energy production is the safer you are. And if you put in the reduced
form of these so-called antioxidants, those will create destructive oxidation. So overloading
on vitamin C, for example, in the reduced form will interact randomly with iron, for
example, along the way and create toxic, excited, oxidative fragments. So aren't reductants
like estrogen and lactate also these types of bad antioxidants, the destroyer system?
Lactate, I think, should stand out as a polar opposite of carbon dioxide. I think a basic
medical test should be the level of lactate in your blood and of total carbon dioxide
in CO2. The higher lactate gets, the closer you are to being dead.
So basically the lactate is in a sense, just the mere buildup of lactate is enough to derange
the oxidative metabolism. Yeah, you can inject lactated ringers, for example, and cause toxic
damage by shifting your system away from the oxidative state.
Do you know why some of the studies, there used to be older studies that showed that
ringers lactate can cause seizures in susceptible people, but those studies seem to have stopped
about 20 years ago. I haven't seen any new ones because they like some kind of a campaign
but a pharmaceutical industry to, again, hide the truth.
Just in the last 20 years or so, there's been a kind of a deification of lactic acid
and lactate. I don't know if that is powering it, but it's essentially an irrational decriminalization
of lactate.
I think a few years ago, we talked about the NAD, the NADH ratio, which reflects the reduction
oxidation balance. Maybe I was reading a paper by Veach, and he stated that he thought the
NADH should be higher relative to the NAD. Is that a more common belief in academia that
the reduction should be higher than. So you're expressing media.
It's like 99 to 100 of very confused attitude towards NADH, where it should be 700 to each
NADH. The oxidized form should be extreme when you're under stress. It gets down more
like two or 300 to one.
Since NAD is so popular now with those NAD drips and stuff, are people trying to pretend
like they never held that those beliefs before?
Yeah, a lot of them don't know about it, but they think they're raising their NADH. Lots
of places are selling to reduced form of NADH as being better because it's reduced. The
same with ubiquinone and ubiquinol, they say the quinol is better because it's reduced.
And Georgie told me this and I've found it in a few papers, but the higher NADH is one
of the signals to turn off the pyruvate dehydrogenase. And that's like some like ketosis advocates
that write papers like one of his names like Jeff Volek. He talks about how that's a consequence
of ketosis. What's the problem if pyruvate dehydrogenase is turned off? Does it matter?
Oh, yeah, that makes the whole cell shift in that direction. Once it starts with the excess
reducing environment, that tends to reinforce it and make it get worse and worse.
Well, if you turn off pyruvate dehydrogenase, as we just mentioned, you're starting to
immediately build up lactate because pyruvate will be used as the emergency oxidant. So
you're going to start building up lactate and we just said that I don't know if there's
any circumstance where you would want elevated lactate just because it's so deranging to
bring themselves. Yeah, and to keep the production of lactate going, you need something to get rid
of the build-up, the higher and higher levels of NADH. And the intrinsic alternative to oxygen
is the synthesis of fats. And so when the cell gets convinced that it isn't going to get enough
oxygen, then it starts synthesizing fatty acids like crazy. Estrogen and other stressors
will turn on this enzyme system to consume excess NADH
in the absence of oxygen. And so it runs glycolysis, lactic acid production, intrinsically
changing the cell over to consuming energy at a high rate but in a destructive
primitiveizing direction. So sometimes they'll say, well, you know, fatty acids bypass glycolysis
and they form through the activation of acetyl CoA. And so that's good to skip glycolysis and go
directly to the mitochondria. What's the faulty thinking with that argument?
That's going to deprive you of carbon dioxide production relative to what you could have with
oxidizing glucose. And then the oxygen supply is the kind of the credit like because we can
consume our tissues to produce glucose. The real bottleneck of everything is the oxygen supply and
things like lipid proxidation and the lack of carbon dioxide. Those are interfering and estrogen
are interfering with our oxygen supply. I also read a paper recently showing that the fatty acid
cintase enzyme and the beta oxidation structure are also often form complexes with the estrogen
receptor. So anytime you're over oxidizing fat or synthesizing fats, you're also directly activating
the estrogen system, especially the estrogen receptor alpha, which seems to be the, like,
not the bad one, but the one that's actually driving all of the pro cancerous effects of estrogen.
Yeah. And just the stress state, if you overheat a cell, that will activate the fatty acid cintase.
Maybe a while ago, maybe you've said it more recently, I'm not sure, but you talked about like
using progesterone as your stress hormone. So maybe an ideal environment, this reduction
oxidation process is happening normally. And like when does progesterone enter the picture? I don't
know, can you unpack that using it as your stress hormone, something you said a while ago?
Antistress.
Cholesterol is on the very primitive level. Cholesterol is the steroid stabilizing
pro-oxidative equivalent of progesterone. And with higher
organization, the progesterone refines the functions of cholesterol on stabilizing and
directing the cell in that ability to go down the organization building pathways.
But I guess in an ideal world, if a person is producing lots of progesterone, is that
sounds kind of stupid, but like is that used up before you activate the kind of the classical
hypothalamus pituitary and adrenal systems?
The brain has its intrinsic machinery. The ovaries are just there to reinforce the organism
so it's able to safely go through a pregnancy and guarantee the well-being, despite the stress
the mother is going through, the ovaries, and then the placenta are very powerful
progesterone synthesizers. But for everyone who isn't pregnant, the brain is our most intense
progesterone, a factory progesterone, and it's a product.
I have a question related to progesterone and pregnenolone. In some of the older studies,
especially the ones that Celia did, he showed that giving people pregnenolone decreases their
excretion of 17 kerosteroids, which Celia thought means that pregnenolone is giving the adrenals a
break, but without the negative effects of, let's say, taking cortisol directly. Would you say
that pregnenolone probably fills in for some of the roles of cortisol?
Yeah, an experiment in rats around 1950 gave, with a stomach tube, they gave them, I think,
was a 10 gram dose of pregnenolone filling their stomachs with it, and they had measured their
cortisol before the experiment, and a certain proportion of them had above normal level of cortisol,
showing that they were having to respond that way to stress of some sort. But all of them
having received this gigantic dose of pregnenolone, all of them had normal levels of cortisol after
that, so it bypassed the need to produce cortisol. And people tend to think of a mass action effect
that if you eat a lot of pregnenolone, won't you get increased levels of the product, but it's
exactly the opposite. It works like cholesterol and progesterone to stabilize the organism,
so you don't need to resort to the harmful things like albastro and cortisol.
I remember what I was thinking of. You mentioned another rat study, and I have it in my notes,
but maybe they removed the adrenals, but as long as the rat had super physiological levels of salt
or progesterone, it could survive, but then the progesterone would take it.
He noticed a cell you noticed at first when he had the adrenal glands removed, and all of them
died very quickly as soon as they were under stress, but the females that were pregnant
survived as long as they were pregnant, and then died. And so he decided to try non-pregnant
animals removing their steroids and supplementing progesterone, and they lived out particularly
normal, healthy lifespans without adrenal glands if they were given progesterone. It
makes up not only for cortisol, but for albastro and all of the other functions of the adrenals.
And the progesterone is acting on the oxidation reduction balance, but you said on a lower level,
it's ordering the water, and that's how it's so protective in the cell?
If you think of estrogen as doing everything that tends to excite the cell and move it to a lower
non-oxidizing energy system, progesterone knocks out those effects of estrogen and gets the cell
back on the oxidizing pathway. The bioflavonoids that people have sometimes talked about them
as antioxidants or other functions, but the most important ones are working in the same direction
as carbon dioxide and progesterone, shifting the balance slightly favoring NAD rather than NADH.
I have a question on that about progesterone. Looking at the structure of the molecule
and comparing it to estrogen, I mean, basically progesterone is just four rings with two carbonyl
groups. Doesn't that technically make it a quinone similar to a moldine or like metaline blue?
Well, that carbonyl group especially, if it resonates with another double bond,
that is a very strong electron retractor. An analogous to the carbon dioxide effect where you
have two double bonded oxygens on the carbon. The activated carbonyl group has that function,
so when you see it in a molecule, it means that it's likely to be protected in some way.
Jumping back a little bit, Ray, do you remember the arguments of the people saying that the NADH
should be higher? What was their thought process? Basically, no thought.
Just referring to the idea of antioxidants, you need to restore when
vitamin E, for example, gets oxidized, vitamin C will replenish the electron and then NADH
replenishes, vitamin C's, the electron and so on. They extrapolate much too far from the idea of
protective antioxidants and forget that what we want is pro-oxidation to protect against those
destructive oxidations. We talked about this a while ago, but if you're saying the poofa
are essentially saying that some level of lipid peroxidation is desirable when
almost in general, nobody is saying that lipid peroxidation is some good process. It's exclusively
harmful. Is that right? The good oxidation is very focused and antioxidant in the sense of
preventing things like chain reactions of polyunsaturated fat breakdown.
I think the indication of the badness of lipid peroxidation, one of the major byproducts is
something called malone dialdehyde, and I think that's one of the few endogenous metabolites
that are known to be mutagenic, or at least strongly suspected to be so, but nothing that
glucose oxidation produces ever generates any such dangerous metabolites.
Right. I think there are probably a lot more of the breakdown
polyunsaturated fats, but that has been malone dialdehyde. It has been very heavily studied,
three carbon and six and nine carbon units, I think are DNA damaging too.
Speaking of something you probably can't say enough, but isn't it the glycerol from the free
fatty acids that is majorly forming the methyl glyoxal, and that is essential for the advanced
glycation end products that are blamed on glucose? Yeah. Especially in the presence of polyunsaturated
fats, the methyl glyoxal starts to break down, and then those fragments of linoleic or
arachidonic acid, or the higher DHA and EPA, those breakdown fragments amplify the so-called
glycation. It's predominantly a pufa deterioration that counts as glycation.
If the person was like hypoxic and the sugar was being converted into lactic acid,
that could contribute to the methyl glyoxal too, but not nearly as much as the glycerol.
I think by shifting the redox in that direction, I think it probably intensifies that
methyl glyoxal metabolism. Once you get that shift towards lactate, you're shifting against
carbon dioxide, and carbon dioxide is a direct blocker of the protein glycation or glycosylation.
In blood physiology, they talk about the formation of carbonyl hemoglobin. The carbonyl reaction
is recognized perfectly well. Higher concentration, the carbon dioxide forms a compound with the
amino group of the hemoglobin protein, and that pulls electrons through the protein,
increasing the acidity, and affecting the affinity of the hemoglobin for
oxygen, depending on how much carbon dioxide is competing for the electrons in the system.
What they don't talk about is that wherever in the body you have similar amino groups on proteins,
carbon dioxide, when it reaches those levels, is going to form carbonyl compounds of whatever
protein you're talking about, which could be insulin itself, or the various receptors on
cells all the way through a cell, wherever a so-called receptor has an exposed amino group.
Carbon dioxide is going to form a carbonyl compound, shifting electrons, so the process
that happens, everyone knows it happens in hemoglobin, but they neglect the physical chemistry that
says it has to happen wherever you have carbon dioxide and the amino groups. That's part of
how the whole system shifts as a unit. You can't talk about individual receptors independently
without looking at how they participate in this global shift towards electron withdrawal.
Two questions related to steroids. The first one is about cholesterol and
pregnenolone. As you mentioned, cholesterol is the fundamental primitive, almost ancient
protective mechanism, a structural protector of the cell, but if there is an environment in the
body where there's a lot of production of reactive oxygen species and metabolism is not working well,
cholesterol can get oxidized into these metabolites that are known to have a role in
cardiovascular disease. It can also get a terrified cholesterol, as you mentioned in several of
your newsletters, is one of the whole marks of aging. But if you look at pregnenolone,
the molecule is structurally almost the same as cholesterol, minus this fatty acid sidechain
that cholesterol has. Do you think pregnenolone can fill in for a lot of the structural protection
functions that cholesterol has, but without the dangers? Right in the mitotic apparatus,
pregnenolone has a very central primitive essential function for cell division and stabilization
at preventing abnormal cell division and chromosomal damage and so on.
But the process that makes cholesterol form these esters, it's the polyunsaturated fatty acid
ester of cholesterol, which gets stuck in the cells and gets stuck there because of an inflammatory
process, started by this lactic acid shift towards everything pro-inflammatory. So I see lactic acid
as starting the inflammatory process leading to the binding of pufa to cholesterol and blocking
the cell's ability to break it down, oxidize the fatty acid and let cholesterol do its protective
work. So do you think the esterification of cholesterol with these pufas is essentially
kind of like an emergency protective mechanism to decrease the availability of pufa for producing
the inflammatory mediators like prostaglandins and lukotryans? If you don't have the pufa,
you have an on and off of the saturated fatty acid ester, so it doesn't accumulate
year after year. It conservates a momentary purpose, but when it's polyunsaturated,
the level builds up year after year and your blood vessels or brain or other tissues.
Okay, and my second question is related to the overlap between
pregnant alone and progesterone as far as the stress system is concerned. I think you mentioned
in several of your articles and newsletters that pregnant alone is known to lower the release of
ACTH by the pituitary sort of form of like a negative feedback similar to cortisol in this
way stop the stress system, but progesterone by being a cortisol antagonist at the receptor level,
I've seen several studies where it shows cortisol can actually raise ACTH because the body interprets
the presence of progesterone, I'm sorry not cortisol, progesterone, interprets the progesterone being
an antagonist of the cortisol receptor, it's almost like a cortisol deficiency, so you will
raise ACTH. Do you think there is a potential for this elevation of ACTH being potentially
dangerous if the supply of progesterone is removed? No, I think that progesterone is going to take
care of that experimental setup. I think it was a closed system where you couldn't
see progesterone correcting both ends of the process because physiologically progesterone will
lower cortisol production directly acting on the adrenal, but also lowering the pituitary
activity and the brain activity that activates the pituitary it's working on at least three levels
anti-stress and if you isolate the system then you can see a conflict between
negative feedback of cortisol and progesterone interfering with that but I think that's only a
poorly arranged experiment. So to what degree do you think pregnant one in progesterone overlap
in terms of their anti-stress effects of shutting off the excess adrenal activity?
I would guess that in a similar quantity progesterone is going to be
more active per mole but since it's more common to take a bigger dose of pregnantone
you don't get the powerful anesthetic effect from a very big dose of pregnant one for example.
If you had similar amounts I think progesterone would be the more powerful and by stressor.
But the mechanisms of action are largely the same, largely of 11.
Yeah okay. To wrap up this thought Ray could you like why is this important are we we're living
in this kind of reducing world and we're trying to stay oxidized and that's largely the problem
everything in our environment is pushing us towards that reduced state and that's why
this is kind of an uphill battle is that right?
Yeah even the excess high pressure oxygen of the atmosphere at sea level by displacing
too much carbon dioxide in our lungs even that higher than desirable level of oxygen ends up
putting us into the reducing state by displacing too much carbon dioxide.
What about the iodized air at sea level doesn't that have a little bit of a protective effect
by neutralizing serotonin? Oh yeah yeah if you keep your metabolism in an anti-inflammatory
pro-thyroid high metabolic rate glucose oxidizing condition then it will keep its serotonin and
nitric oxide and those things under control so you can tolerate a high level of stress if your
energy flow is strong enough. Okay one last question for me in regards to sugars there is glucose
then there's fructose and then there's trecholose the fungus sugar which you wrote about in one of
the newsletters of the three would you say that trecholose is potentially the safest in terms of
not generating as much lactate even in compromised individuals?
I haven't seen enough experiments with mammalian cells for example to know how it works for
maintaining the energy system. Okay thank you. One of the reasons for preferring fructose
or sucrose over starch and pure glucose is that ketone function has that
biasing effect putting the cell into a more oxidizing state and what one of the effects is to
for example the fatty liver effect of overdosing on fats or starvation or stress alcohol puts you
in a highly reducing state that tends to produce fatty liver and they do experiments
intending to incriminate fructose as producing a fatty liver the same way ethanol or the stresses
do but in fact when you have stay within physiological limits fructose is an exact
antidote to that fatty liver producing effect of ethanol. Ethanol puts the cell in in a reducing
condition fructose at the right level favors the oxidizing condition and will for example
protect you against the toxic effects even a hangover fructose will get yourselves quickly
back into the oxidizing anti stress condition. Okay just one last question since sucrose
and trecolos are of the kind of so-called non reducing sugars wouldn't just that be like a
reason enough to like use them over as a fuel like to prefer to be a fuel to any of the other
macronutrients given that they're actually they will not put you in a reduced state just by their
chemical structure. Yeah that's my reason for preferring fructose and sucrose but I haven't seen
experiments with treolos in in mammal cells. There is a mention trecolos because there's this
really hearty animal the water bear that can survive like ridiculously lethal doses of radiation
be exposed you know be sending to outer space and sit there and then come back and be
relatively unharmed and it looks like most of its most of the sugars that it uses inside its
cells is trecolos. Yeah I think there it's having the same effect that enositol does
I think that's a structural effect on the water which I just haven't seen how it works
how mammalian cells can handle that but on simpler organisms
the trecolos and what are they say just now the
enositol? Enositol. Yeah yeah enositol which isn't a sugar but it
has a spatial arrangement of the hydroxyl groups that make it more effective than sugar
as a stabilizer of proteins. Have you seen the human studies with enositol that
it cures even treatment resistant depression that nothing else can really touch in terms of
fun drugs? I think it will eventually come into use as just a situational defense like
Pregnantel and/or Progesterone as an all-purpose protective effect. Studies have been done on
various cells with X irradiation showing that it is a powerful anti-radiation damage factor.
So it's structurally acts similar to sugar basically even though it's technically not?
Yeah it doesn't get burned up so fast as fructose or glucose so it can have a longer lasting
stabilizing effect. So switching gears a little bit I've never received so much email
about something then our last talk about Stalin and so I really want to dig deep into
this as possible. Much to the dismay I'm sure a lot of people listening to this. Okay so Ray have
you heard of I'm sure you have but CIA project aerodynamic? No I never heard of it. So I just
kind of accidentally stumbled upon it but apparently it was a CIA scheme to create anti-Russian propaganda
and then somebody like frequently that's brought up in like kind of conservative circles is
Yuri Besmanoff who is supposed to be like an XKGB defector and he talks about how the like
the Soviets were infiltrating America to impose communism and basically it turns out he probably
worked for the CIA. Anyways so if we could like open this up as much as possible and the thing that
I thought was interesting as I was reading an article by Andrew Gavin Marshall it's called
Origins of American Empire on Global Research and he again framed things in an interesting way and
I'd be interested to bounce it off you and see if it was even right but he talked about kind of the
opposition of Stalin to the Rothschilds and also the Rockefellers who wanted to take over the oil
fields of Russia and saw this read us a little bit of this but he says the English the English
Rothschilds were alarmed when the socialist tendencies of the I don't know how to say this
emigres contributed to a massively disruptive Taylor strike in the east end of London in
1888 a young Georgianian communist who would become known to the world as Joseph Stalin was
already organizing laborers to strike at the Rothschilds oil interest in bottom and let me just
get one other critical part here. This spurred protests and riots and young Stalin himself led
the agitation against the Caucasian oil industry in general and the Rothschilds in particular
and so one is is that line up with your view of history and what if a person were to go
against the Rothschilds and the Rockefellers what kind of disinformation campaign would be
launched against them? Oh well the German system very early got
integrated through the Delos brothers with what became the CIA and the British and the Germans
were early aiming to destroy the Russian Empire because they had other plans for that part of
the world and Stalin was aware of these imperialist motives and from an early age even though he was
a Georgian he was seeing the Russian Empire was less evil than the British and German empires
so he was essentially a patriot as well as a labor leader from a very young age
and several of the top Bolsheviks especially I think Lenin was at one point subsidized
by the Germans and probably the British Trotsky very definitely by this Delos faction that included
the Germans and the Rothschilds. Trotsky was a very effective anti-Zarist activist but he never
betrayed the German American British interests so he went through the whole Bolshevik period
as essentially a German saboteur and at one point
in connection with settling the First World War so Russia could withdraw from the war
Lenin referred to Trotsky's behavior as treasonous but at that time didn't have the power to replace
him. He was serving Lenin's and Stalin's interests even though they saw him as betraying Russian
interests in favor of the Germans but after Lenin died Stalin remained an organizer against the
British and German interests where Trotsky continued right up until the time he was murdered to be
effectively working with the FBI British and German intelligence.
So quick question about Trotsky do you think his murder had more to do with Stalin or more to do with
the Western intelligence agencies? I always assumed it was Stalin because
the Moscow trials of 1937 and '38 brought out
such overwhelming evidence that he was deeply involved with all of the imperialists
and the Dewey commission that went to Mexico to exonerate Trotsky of the charges that he was
working for the Germans, John Dewey really ruined his name for anyone who looks at what happened
in that doey commission who was a whitewash job trying to cover up Trotsky's involvement with the
Germans and the FBI. So right according to our Spotify analytics 18 to 34 is our big audience
and with the rise of people like Jordan Peterson and people pushed towards conservative
conservatism that we're going to receive hundreds of comments that say you know Ray
is very smart in nutrition and he has no idea what he's talking about on a political front and so
but besides the CIA program you know that was focused on anti-Russian sentiment like what else
is there and I don't get it. It's much much much deeper than the CIA. The CIA is just
just a surface organization but they used money from the Marshall plan. They got billions of dollars
to penetrate every place they could, they were already inside most of the democratic governments
of the world acting as saboteurs but if you look at the nature of the US government
the Wall Street putch or the the business plot against Roosevelt
revealed by Smedley Butler. All they did when Butler exposed their plan they just made longer
range plans to take effect when the second world war was over so they had to wait 12 years
but the Hitler faction people who had medals awarded by Hitler for service to the Nazi cause
these factions were in control of the democratic big city machines during the war
and they declared their patriotism during the war but they didn't change their their Nazi sympathies
and these people rigged the 1944 democratic convention to install their agent
and so effectively Hitler Dulles puppet Harry Truman to take over the government so it was
the same putch as they failed at in 1933 they got organized and succeeded and the Dulles
brothers meanwhile had deeply integrated themselves even during the war with the Nazi
intelligence apparatus and so the what we know as the CIA using vast funds such as the Marshall
Plan money they simply continued the German basic purpose of working with the banks to rule the world
in favor of the corporations so the whole illusion that they teach in high school and universities
mostly of what the US has been doing in the 20th century it's just as false as the story they
created with these like the Ukrainian and a whole series of so-called defectors
who were just making up stories that the CIA gave them to to publicize well since anybody who likes
Trump is now like a Nazi what the the the problem with the Nazi philosophy is that you eugenics
supremacy idea and then that is what we're all going through right now like that it's an extension
of that idea is that right yep it was slightly embarrassed at the end of the world war so they
they had to change the names of their eugenics journals to human biology or human genetics rather
than eugenics but the ideas didn't change they took a more acceptable form but there has been
steady progress against the the more humanistic strains of American civilization
supplanted by the the Dulles brothers alliance with the German and bikers factions
have a question what do you think is at the core of this not even rival rival it's just this
fundamental opposition between the west and for a lack of a better word the east with Russia
being at its center which seems to have been going since at least the 1850s long before communism
and and capitalism kind of formed as ideas there seems to be something deeper driving this to do
you know what that may be um the the empires made it very obvious what they wanted
the British Empire wanted to absolutely control the world and slave that whole land mass including
Russians and adding it to their Indian Empire and the Germans were envious and thought they could
knock out the British Empire and rule all of those resource hoarding Asians and get their resources
and the US and the bankers outsmarted the German nationalists so that they were a faction powering
Nazism but they didn't have any of the good nationalist impulses that made the German people
hysterically favoring Nazism it simply Nazism without the nationalism not not doing anything
favoring common people moving straight to the control of all of the world resources
directly by the very limited ruling population and then because Russia the Russian Empire
the Soviet Union was powerful enough to say we're not going to participate in your plans or at least
we're not going to we're not going to give up without a fight basically that they that automatically
made them target public enemy number one in the eyes of the financial powers because that's the
one thing they can undermine them okay yeah yeah so just to put a bow on this you can't really
understand the framing of Stalin without understanding his opposition to the banker families the
Rothschilds the Rockefellers do you think that's accurate statement yeah he was actually defending
the interests of the majority of the Russian people and was an actual patriot betraying
he didn't make the deals with the imperialists in the first place like Lenin and Trotsky but
Lenin very quickly betrayed the Germans and Stalin had never
gone down that pathway to power he went straight up from being a labor organizer
and I did receive a few emails from people russians who disagreed with the characterization of Stalin
like what what would you say to those people specifically are they they had great grandparents
or grandfather grandmother who passed away well the the Russians since since Stalin died
Khrushchev started it and then Gorbachev finished it off acting in conceding a lot of their power
to to the west and the banks and Khrushchev started the the slandering of Stalin just totally
inventing history that ever happened and Gorbachev continued that so what russians have been hearing
for more than 60 years is also a historical lies in line with what the CIA and the Germans were
making up by the way I've never met a single Russian who spoke positively of Gorbachev
they all considered him a sellout so the emails you may be even getting it they're probably about
I mean they're they're not very positive of Stalin but if you ask those people about their opinion
of Gorbachev I my guess is it's not going to be very positive either yes Gorbachev was was a
teenager when the Nazis came through the Ukraine and somehow he survived and I've always suspected
that he was owned by the Nazis right from his teen years as a plant waiting to take power
so I think to maybe a young conservative person they're they're fully aware that like something
we've talked about like the Gloria Steinem CIA feminism is like some kind of psychological
operation but they're not aware that this the anti-communism anti-Stalin is part of a
is very similar and then they're their condition by it is that accurate
oh yeah the the even very bright highly educated history students
don't don't have a shadow of suspicion of how totally corrupt
history writing has been for 130 years or so in the United States and that's because the spider
at the top of this is just completely concealed and you you don't hear about the Rockefellers the
Rothschilds the DuPonts the Morgan's the Vanderbelts like these these families that can kind of
influence everything are completely hidden from you yeah they are still governing like Wikipedia
it's called at the the alleged Wall Street plots
Wikipedia is a good 800 of these deep state powers well okay so it stands what we were talking
about into modern day and just wrapping that up like again the Nazi the Nazism is the eugenics
philosophy and correct me if I'm wrong but there at the moment there are kind of two
power factions one this got the liberal more Soros gates at L types or the what was
technocratic yeah the technocrats and then Trump is kind of on this other side of religious
prophecy or he's aligned himself with those people and in this situation the the trump the trump
people are more pro-life than these kind of genocidal eugenics maniac people
yeah unfortunately the most humanistic trend has got connected with with the craziest
groups but they have a little bit of things in common in that they do want the the mass citizen
citizenry in chains in some way shape or form it so is that why um again there's kind of uh
acquiescence to to a lot of these like trump isn't opposing vaccines or opposing the lockdowns or
or is that just because he can't he doesn't have power to do so well you know he invited
when right after he was elected he invited Robert Kennedy jr to come to Washington to
talk to him about heading a commission to investigate vaccines and then Pfizer donated a million
dollars and Trump called Trump it's called Kennedy and told him the deal was off
so again that's the self-reservation that you talked about a while ago is that right
yeah yeah so so no politician is going to save us from this mess is that that's the bottom line
I yeah the um there were so many reasons that JFK was slightly hesitant about doing the the
most evil thing is that the the CIA Nazi faction had and the in-store and for that slight hesitancy
he was killed and uh everyone since then who has a brain knows knows that they can't act without
to the extent that they do anything serious they won't live long enough to to see it happen
um I have a it's like a relatable on the side note did you know Ray that there was a civil
lawsuit filed um by the surviving relatives of MLK Martin Luther King and there was a court
decision um in a civil court which decided that MLK was the victim of a government led conspiracy
and that was used to me too yeah there's a book written about it and the evidence is just
overwhelmingly clear and um it's sort of I think the same person who wrote JFK the unspeakable
about the covered up facts of of his assassination he attended the whole trial of MLK
assassination and made made a really convincing case of how clear the evidence was
have you ever met a person or has even heard of that trial to my knowledge nobody no American
that I've ever met no he has even heard that there was a trial that said MLK was killed by
conspiracy. Yeah and probably very few people have heard that Robert Kennedy Jr.
knows exactly who the agent was that killed his father the security guard that shot him in the
back of the head with his gun in contact with his skull uh he uh he he sold the gun and uh told
the buyer that it had been used in the crime but he told the police that the gun had been sold
six months before but uh he he worked for for for a uh a Pentagon uh financed uh uh industry in
Los Angeles and just went to the uh hotel uh a week before the assassination uh so he was clearly
put in place by the the deep state and uh that the evidence is available to to show that
the uh well well accepted official story that 95 percent of Americans believe that it's
absolutely disproved by uh many many bits of evidence. I just wanted to bring this up to you
because I thought it was interesting. Ray I sent you a link to a movie a while ago I don't know if
you remember it but it was called cold case hammer scold and there's actually a documentary
about dog hammer scold and and who killed him and why and they came to the conclusion like you said
that the CIA did it and they they even showed a photograph of the the ace playing card in the
collar of dog hammer scold which is like a calling card of the CIA but in that movie they find like
a kind of key witness and um they're they're interviewing him and they say you mentioned uh
actively spreading AIDS and he goes there was a unit from simar one of the things we that we did
was we went into African countries and the director says and how has that done exactly and he goes
through inoculation and the director says through vaccines and he goes yeah through vaccines and
so um and your estimation is like the delivery uh of vaccines is just like a kind of a diabolical
concept in general and then and then I did a little bit more research about um the special I
know I'm all over the place I apologize but the special uh cancer special virus cancer program
and dr boy graves who passed away mysteriously found a blueprint in an old book in it I'm not an
expert you know but it looks like a diagram for the the manufacturing of HIV have you seen that stuff
no I haven't seen that uh but um uh the I think the evidence is is
it indirect but um you can't look at the contextual situation without knowing that they at least
we're trying to make something like HIV people were talking about it
14 years before the HIV came on the scene people working at the germ warfare lab we're talking
about that intent to make a racially specifically lethal virus that has been part of the germ warfare
culture for decades and then like you we can only presume that they they kind of failed right
because coronavirus is not well assuming that it was created in a lab like it's not that deadly
and so there must have been some kind of change of plan and the maybe the vaccine is the the
death the fast death agent rather than some kind of slow slow killing agent it I think they probably
have very lethal equivalent vaccines but I think that the uh big picture is that they have made a
lot of noise going back years that they were working on this sort of thing and that they were very
careless and having hundreds and hundreds of leaks and getting that in the news for years so
the Chinese being sensitive to American germ warfare from their experience
they would react very quickly to any virus even if it was just a harmless cold virus because of
that setup that the germ warfare people had been sloppy it was like sending a very pointed
message to China getting them to react powerfully and quickly stop the virus however deadly it might
be within just a few weeks and go back to business but the whole purpose I think was an excuse
look to Chinese did it we have to shut down our economy and create this
great scare about a harmless virus no evidence has ever come out in fact the definition of an
infection they haven't convincingly showed that anyone was hurt by the infection
simply the presence of the virus and the sick person was enough to say here is a deadly virus
but since almost all the people were already sick from something else the presence of a cold virus
you can easily connect any decline in their health to the presence of the virus
the whole story of the virus by replicating causes the sickness that just isn't a proper
virology the mechanism of getting sick is something that can be defined very clearly that they haven't
done it and so there's really no science whatsoever behind the idea of a pandemic
have you seen some of the news coming out of China lately saying that they will not under
any circumstances use the western developed vaccine they didn't say why I mean some people
say oh because they want to develop they won't improve their grade but that's not what the
statement said the state kind of it's kind of led to the underlying tone was we simply don't trust
those vials that will be sent to us and if you think we're going to be injecting our people with
that you're just crazy to expect something like this yeah right when people's I mean what what
when people start going brain dead because they got the vaccine it our democrats gonna brain
a blame conservatives and conservatives are gonna blame uh democrats like it well how do you think
that's gonna play out do you think there'll be some kind of realization of what's happening or
or are people so dumbed down that it's uh it'd be even difficult to figure it out
as they'll probably say it's being caused by something else
caused produced by some other enemy maybe some products coming from Iran maybe pistachio nuts
or something causing brain death so so do you so the do you there's evidence of things like that
they've done before like uh releasing something extremely toxic and then blaming some other import
or something like that yeah but mostly the easiest thing is not to notice it unless there is
very very easy to make connection to your enemy if it's just people dropping dead suddenly
you can't uh if it isn't easy to connect then they're just going to say it isn't happening
like to decline in SAT scores starting around 1980 roughly they blamed that on
more poor people taking the test but when you look at the absolute scores it's the
the biggest decline within the high ranges of scores so something has been happening
broadly through the population for 40 years now affecting the brain especially the brightest
functioning brains have you seen some of the recent articles in the press which i was kind
of surprised to see uh wall street journal even new york times are now saying oh my god we destroyed
the economy speaking of the u.s we made a mistake this was a horrible decision but it was it was
unavoidable we had to do it but oh god did did we act um so do you think there's maybe some honesty
in that assessment now they're freaking out that i don't know third of the population the u.s will
be um you know unemployed potentially homeless and riding or do you think it may be like uh you know
just another game if you can imagine that everyone that the paper failed to read or even hear about
eric smits publications and speeches and conferences laying out that plan uh uh over a year ago
15 months ago uh is saying that exactly destroying the existing economy is necessary so we can be
china to the uh automation artificial intelligence economy dependent on needs it so we have to
destroy uh this old economy made up of small and medium sized businesses who who is schmitt aligned
with or like when did he uh become such a big player in kind of the i don't know the deep state or
the kind of the bank or relationships um well the pentagon was a financer uh of google uh and so
he was in uh early uh i i think that the the likelihood is that he was uh pentagon ally before
google came into existence even yeah he was a computer science professor um in a famous
programmer and if you look at his the history of the grants that he's been getting the vast majority
of them are dod and in the i know they're probably a lecture topic but like the relationship between
kind of the um power elite and the pentagon are they taking cues from the philosophy of those people
or how does that work um the um the the philosophy is so so deeply connected to their religion
and uh their racial superiority feelings of meritocracy uh if you look at any of these people
they're they're going to be uh subscribers to the uh idea that we're in a meritocracy
and that that's what's happening that the power of the pentagon is pushing uh the best of everything
uh evenly the so-called progressives like norm kamsky are committed very deeply to this genetic
determinism uh uh that uh fits perfectly with with the old eugenics idea and uh the modern
technocratic meritocracy uh so i have a question about this genetic geneticism i mean there's been
over a hundred years of pursuing medical therapies life extension you know uh you know eternal youth
etc etc by developing the genetic nothing has come out of this like nobody can be that dumb
and continue to hope blindly that something will come out of these therapies of this approach
actually this scientific approach considering that nothing has come out yet not not even something
that says you on the right path like how is that are these people brain damaged or is it is it more
of a religious being a blind fit of blind faith yeah the blind faith thing it is a kind of uh
brain damage uh the uh Peter Duesberg uh got out of the uh war on cancer at a fairly early
stage simply because uh his brain was working better uh nothing but brain function is needed
to account for it uh and people just can't accept the fact that uh 95 of their science professors
are hypnotized by these religious ideas and genetics and meritocracy and so on
a little a little bit related but uh i've been struggling with the concept of a person's
like aging like the rate of aging and then how healthy they are because uh correct me if i'm wrong
but maybe somebody could be a slow uh at a slower rate of aging but they could be like
extraordinarily sick like they could be a i don't know they could be into some weird
stuff or something what how do you distinguish the two and am i even framing it right
i i'm not sure what you mean like so maybe somebody is uh looks aesthetically like they're
not aging that quickly but they're like a pedophile or something like that's an extreme form of sickness
oh oh yeah hypothyroid people uh often have uh uh very even their bones are late to mature
and uh the the um mucopoly saccharides in their skin uh make their skin look very youthful
into their 50s and then the underlying uh problems accumulated from hypothyroidism
show up and and the uh crash into uh uh heart disease or dementia or cancer or or something
very suddenly but uh they can uh seem to seem to be very juicy and youthful uh all the way through
their 40s okay so they're like internally rapidly aging is that right yeah okay yeah yeah and it's
just uh keeping the skin stretched uh like when you when you feed a cow a lot of estrogen it
retains water that looks all shiny and sleek uh in the same with with a middle-aged woman
retaining subcutaneous water uh when she stops the estrogen suddenly you'll see
creaky skin where have been shiny and sleek so what speaking of shiny and sleek i was just about to
say have you seen eric smith's face he always strikes me because no matter every time he speaks
to the camera he's in front of some kind of a audience his forehead and his entire face is
always shining and i always thought he's always sweating but he's not they actually asked him
several times and he said no it's just how that's just how i look because i have a youthful
a youthful appearance he claims that he's not sweating but his face is oh shiny and his skin is
always is always looking like it's just like he said something there's like water underneath
that's stretching it out that's interesting maybe he'll be flight shouldn't oh that's the other
thing um i've also noticed that uh people that that are uh youthful looking through like various
procedures or or hormonal treatments with estrogen in especially human growth hormone
tend to have this appearance but then they seem to have a very sudden decline
um do you know what may be triggering this is it basically the system is finally giving up
systemically uh yeah the the growth hormone uh uh uh is an oligosin some ways to estrogen it
increases the the deposition of of ground substance and can can make things
plump up and actually have more protein immaterial but they're being degraded structurally
so that it predisposes to things like kidney disease
age acceleration in cancer right yeah uh last question then i'll read the superchats then i'll
let you go ray thank you so much for um just sharing your time with us uh everybody listening
please give this episode a like uh comment and subscribe sincerely appreciate it um one one last
question so ray like a 17 year old or 18 year old that is uh degenerating struct structurally like
his structure is breaking down and the 25 year old with the severe kind of um mental illness or
whatever but that is not degrading they are they're adapting to stress in a different
different way but but it's both our sickness is that is that right yeah yeah sometimes just the
amount of protein in the diet uh a low protein diet uh can uh lead to very high cortisol
androgen ratio low d-h-e-a and and of uh pregnant alone high cortisol and that that makes your skin
look uh uh uh aging even when you're at 17 or 18 uh and that can be countered by getting your your
calcium and protein uh uh intake increased vitamin D and and thyroid correction uh and
things like the uh the the nerve diseases uh uh seizures uh schizophrenia uh basically uh brain
swelling conditions uh sometimes just antihistamines anti serotonin aspirin can alleviate what seems
to be a uh of severe psychosis okay thank you for that ray let me just read these really quickly
one one last question um uh speaking of the protein amount of protein in the diet do you think that
the protein requirements may be decreasing with age because the reason i'm asking this is that
there have been several studies showing um a significant extension of lifespan with a low
protein but high carbohydrate diet and there are several uh tribes in the amazon that have been
noticed to have that diet and they have almost no aging and no cardiovascular disease yeah i think
what they're doing is keeping down the uh mathyanine a tryptophane and cysteine which are the pro aging
parts of the protein uh and uh like cal or calorie restriction uh lower sos as well as
polyunsaturated fats and uh if you just uh uh lower those half a dozen uh specific uh uh stress
promoting uh substances uh then the uh higher protein like if you get lots of glycine uh
and gelatin in your diet the protein doesn't have those uh age advancing effect okay one last
question because you reminded me of something ray if you were going to sit down and have some beef
uh and hypothetically you could only choose one would you balance it with calcium balance it with
gelatin or would you drink coffee to inhibit the iron absorption i i would um drink milk or uh
uh eat eggshells or something i i think balancing the the phosphate uh uh would would have priority
and then hypothetically the second choice after the calcium
i've taking aspirin to uh limit uh the uh iron absorption coffee and aspirin
part of their benefit is they help to reduce your iron load i'm so sorry right it is very
popular to talk about iron right now but one of the things that is not mentioned i know you've
done a lot of work on it maybe we could just uh talk about it quickly because i i kept you for
two hours but the estrogen and the hypoxia and the the low thyroid increasing the estrogen and and
promoting the hypoxia that is what's making the iron accumulate and displace the copper
it's not it's not just uh right like this random iron overload situation is that right
um you know people have been animals as well as people have been tested
the amount of estrogen present in pregnancy uh causes an extreme increase in the efficiency of
iron absorption and retention and everything that estrogen does tells your body that
something is wrong with your respiration system and so it uh increases your ability to retain
iron as if that's going to fix the the respiratory system but in fact it reaches a point where it
starts uh competing with copper and uh aging the system uh creating uh stress uh that
subtracts copper from your system so the iron overload is actually hyper estrogenemia is that right
to say um i think so in most cases and then if the iron saturation is high it's acceptable to give
blood given that's not a terrifying event but but aspirin and focusing on the dairy that's a
long-term solution and yeah it's going to work pretty quickly though uh your turnover of cells
your metabolic rate is high uh you're sloughing off a lot of skin and hair and intestinal lining
that takes uh iron out uh every day uh so if you keep your your milk uh to meet ratio high
and have some aspirin and and coffee to restrict the absorption of any iron that is in your food
you'll steadily get rid of the iron what about people that have donated like many many many times
throughout the year like what what is wrong with them like i like i i for like uh hemochromatosis
i've read about people that give like blood every week for like a year like how is that possible
if they're absorbing it very efficiently or if they're liver and marrow
were really stuffed with iron it can take take a lot of elimination to to get the level down so
so maybe their estrogen was just off the charts and in childhood or or something like that
uh yeah you you can carry a wrap around a lot of iron uh without any symptoms
as long as you're in a a good oxidizing state that that doesn't activate it and start the free
radical process awesome okay here are some superchats uh michael for a hundred dollars he says thank
you dr peat thank you michael sincerely appreciate linda bell for five dollars she says thank you
pj martinez for four ninety nine thank you pj sincerely appreciate it stephen uh stephan
gomas for four ninety nine um we can't uh ray would be here all day if we asked him questions of the
superchats but we appreciate it stephan all forward that to ray uh kristina tomaj for nineteen ninety
nine thank you dr peat uh thank you kristina uh prea a hundred for a hundred dollars god bless you
dr peat thank you uh prea uh harry burgos many long-time supporters of the show thank you guys for
twenty five dollars thank you harry uh machele i won't even try your last name for fifty dollars
thank you so much machele appreciate it primitive initiative for twenty four ninety nine thank you
all for taking the time to share your knowledge and insights thank you primitive initiative and i
received an email from kana who was twenty dollars and that was just a donation v email so i will
forward these alter ray ray just to confirm you are receiving the the paypal things i'm sending you
correct oh yeah thank you that that's from all these people uh that watch the show so
uh ray parting words you know i can't thank you enough for for joining us today georgie and i
we really uh feel honored to have you on but at parting words uh and i'm not sure when we'll meet
again because i'll be going mexico so that might be a little sticky to find a internet situation
but parting words for everybody ray um no nothing special georgie dinkop uh i guess not much as well
except question for ray's newsletter i thought it was a little bit uh i don't want to say darker
than than usual but at least i read it this way do you think things are getting worse or they're
at this point stabilize at least socially politically etc i i think it's uh at the point
of getting extremely bad uh very fast if people don't rouse themselves to start acting intelligently
like uh tomorrow in in berlin there will be a big demonstration for civil rights
even though the berlin government said it was uh organized by virus deniers
next worst thing to holocaust deniers i guess well let's hope they succeed right because a lot is at
stake yeah hope hope a million people turn out one last thing before we leave ray how can people
subscribe to your newsletters oh uh ray peat newsletter at gmail.com and then uh same question
with your books how do they obtain those you can ask about them at that same address and same
with old copies of your newsletters yeah there's a list of digitized things that are ready to send
out we're still working on digitizing the rest of the 40 years that was my next question you have a
list of the like i was going through my collection of your newsletters and i i came across one i had
never seen before and so i mean that's funny because i go through that all the time so uh but you have
like a list of the names of all the newsletters searching i don't think under people understand
how many newsletters you have uh it's um 360 something like that well amazing awesome ray uh
thank you so much and serially appreciate it uh dorgy thanks a lot i mean it's always
in order to have you uh i i recommend maybe publishing these as a bundle and putting them
in the library of congress i think just making them searchable um through through an institution
like loc library of congress i think you'll um increase the audience tremendously yeah i i'm hoping
we can do that uh it's a long job getting these old typed manuscripts uh in digital form without
lots of mistakes right i think it will be worth it awesome guy if the listeners thank you guys so
much future listeners thank you so much ray thank you amazing to have you on georgie dean
caust thank you guys so much and we'll see you soon and everybody have a safe weekend and thanks again
bye everybody okay thank you all there right
let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope
it is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome soviet missile threat
with measures that are defensive that has turned to the very strengths and technology
of spawn our great industrial base and that have given us the quality in life we enjoy today
what a free view could live secure in the knowledge but their security did not rest
upon the threat against an English retaliation to deter the soviet attack we could intercept
and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil with that of our allies
i know this is a formidable technical task one that may not be accomplished
victor technology is the high-flying hardware computer company which took a nose dive this
year may be bought out by the british fermified computer technology
piloting the space shuttle is very difficult to do one would think can a kid or a normal person
actually pull us off well what i did when i designed this was i understood that problem
it seems the suite of technology has no limits san francisco this week the world's first robot
bar tender was unveiled robot can talk and take spoken waters and mix to 100 different drinks
but on the first test run robot pocket glass off the bar and off of the floor and on the
here all over the counter robots designer says there were still some bugs to work out
so
i call upon the scientific community in our country those who gave us nuclear weapons
to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind or release to give us the means of
rendering these nuclear weapons infinite and obsolete tonight consistent with our obligations
of the adn treating recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies
i'm taking an important first step instant u.s retelliation nuclear war
in japan where high technology showcase consumers stare in wonder at the latest
festival live overtaken by the computer age the department store the law of a seaboo store is
proud of its technology it is worried that customers can feel it has lost the human touch
so
let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope
it is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome soviet missile threat
with measures that are defensive let us turn to the very strengths and technology
but spawn our great industrial base and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today
what if free people could live secure in the knowledge that their security did not rest upon
the threat against our aviation to determine soviet attack we could intercept and destroy
strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil for that of our allies
i know this is a formidable technical sense one that may not be accomplished
mr. technologies the high flying hardware computer company which took a nose dive this year
may be bought out by the british firm applied computer technology
piloting space shuttle is very difficult to do before we think can a kid or a moral person
actually pull us off what i did when i designed this was i i